
(("3b-swf") ("3bil")
 ("3bmd"
  . "3bmd is a Markdown to HTML converter. It uses esrap for parsing, and a grammar based on peg-markdown.")
 ("able" . "Able is a basic lisp editor for Windows/Mac/Linux.")
 ("access"
  . "Access is a library to ease getting and setting values in nested dictionary-like objects by providing a unified interface to hash-tables, clos-objects, plists and alists.")
 ("advanced-readtable") ("adw-charting")
 ("alexandria"
  . "Alexandria is a collection of portable public domain utilities.")
 ("amazon-ecs")
 ("anaphora"
  . "Anaphora is the anaphoric macro collection from Hell; it includes many new fiends in addition to old friends like AIF and AWHEN. ")
 ("anaphoric-variants"
  . "anaphoric-variants gives access to anaphoric variants of operators through one macro: ANAPHORIC. The user explicitly provides a variable name, preserving sanity, in contrast to the traditional use of an evil implicit variable (\"IT\"). Some operators can bind additional handy variables when explicitly requested.")
 ("antik")
 ("archive"
  . "ARCHIVE is a library for reading an writing disk-based file archives such as those generated by the 'tar' and 'cpio' programs on Unix. ARCHIVE aspires to be a pure Common Lisp replacement for the 'tar' program.")
 ("arnesi"
  . "arnesi is a collection of utilities written by Marco Baringer. It includes some ASDF-extensions.")
 ("arnesi+") ("aromyxo" . "aromyxo is Lars Rune Nøstdal's utilities library.")
 ("array-operations"
  . "Array-operations provides commonly used operations on arrays.")
 ("asdf-dependency-grovel"
  . "asdf-dependency-grovel makes it possible to generate components with dependencies from serial asdf system definitions. It is possible to merge several systems into one (to work around asdf's inter-module dependency handling), and to generate dependencies for non-serial system definitions.")
 ("asdf-driver") ("asdf-encodings") ("asdf-finalizers")
 ("asdf-install"
  . "ASDF-install is OBSOLETE. DO NOT USE ASDF-INSTALL, EVER. DO NOT ASK AROUND ABOUT HOW TO GET IT RUNNING. IT IS O-B-S-O-L-E-T-E. Not working. Not maintained. Please use quicklisp instead. Maybe clbuild for more advanced stuff.")
 ("asdf-project-helper")
 ("asdf-system-connections"
  . "Note: this system is no longer being maintained. Use Quicklisp!")
 ("asdf-utils")
 ("asn.1"
  . "Abstract Syntax Notation #1, the Common Lisp implementation and language mapping")
 ("atdoc"
  . "Atdoc generates documentation for Common Lisp packages. It extracts documention strings written using a custom markup language and generates HTML pages.")
 ("autoproject")
 ("babel"
  . "Babel is a character encoding/decoding library, not unlike GNU libiconv, but completely written in Common Lisp.")
 ("backports")
 ("beirc"
  . "beirc is a CLIM IRC client Application using the cl-irc library as a backend, initially written by Gilbert Baumann, now maintained by Dave Murray and others.")
 ("binary-types"
  . "Binary-types is a library for accessing binary format files with fixed bit-length code-words. Binary-types provides macros that are used to declare the mapping between lisp objects and some binary (i.e. octet-based) representation.")
 ("binascii"
  . "binascii is a binary format library for converting between ASCII and binary according to various popular encodings.")
 ("binge")
 ("binomial-heap"
  . "Binomial-heap is an implementation of the binomial heap data structure. Insertion, extremum access, extremum extraction, and union operations can be performed on the data structure in O(logn) time.")
 ("bitfield-schema")
 ("bk-tree"
  . "This program implements a derivative of BK-Tree data structure described in \"Some Approaches to Best-Match File Searching\" paper of W. A. Burkhard and R. M. Keller. For more information about the paper, see")
 ("bknr-datastore" . "bknr-datastore is the ObjectStore used in bknr.")
 ("bknr-web") ("black-tie") ("blackthorn-engine") ("blackthorn-engine-3d")
 ("bordeaux-fft"
  . "Bordeaux-FFT is a fast, pure-Lisp implementation of Fast Fourier Transforms.")
 ("bordeaux-threads"
  . "Bordeaux-Threads lets you write multi-threaded applications in a portable way.")
 ("bourbaki") ("brlapi") ("btrie")
 ("bubble-operator-upwards"
  . "bubble-operator-upwards is a function that \"bubbles an operator upwards\" in a form, demultiplexing all alternative branches by way of cartesian product. This operation is notably useful for easy implementation of certain kinds of shorthand notations in macros. A cartesian-product function is also exported, as it's needed to implement the main function.")
 ("buildapp"
  . "Buildapp is an SBCL tool for creating executables. It is similar to hu.dwim.build. Buildapp is available under a BSD license. ")
 ("buildnode"
  . "Buildnode is a libary to ease interaction with CXML:DOM XML documents and nodes")
 ("calispel"
  . "Calispel is a concurrency library for thread-safe message-passing channels, in the style of the occam programming language.")
 ("cambl")
 ("cartesian-product-switch"
  . "CARTESIAN-PRODUCT-SWITCH is a macro for choosing the appropriate form to execute according to the combined results of multiple tests. This is a straightforward and efficient alternative to the convoluted ad-hoc conditionals one might otherwise resort to.")
 ("caveman" . "Caveman is a web framework based on Clack.")
 ("cells"
  . "cells is a dataflow extension to CLOS (think spreadsheet-type programming, with slots being spreadsheet cells) by Kenny Tilton. It is released under a MIT-type license. Its home page is at common-lisp.net. It has undergone a major revision since it was first publicly released, and now has a significantly improved data-propagation model. On Kenny's Cells webpage, the citation for Bill Clementson's blog about Cells is valid, but Cells syntax changes have rendered the example inoperative.  Updated example here")
 ("cells-gtk3")
 ("cffi"
  . "CFFI, the Common Foreign Function Interface, purports to be a portable foreign function interface (FFI) for Common Lisp.")
 ("cffi-objects")
 ("cgn"
  . "cgn is an interface to the gnuplot plotting library. It has been programmed using LTK, and works everywhere LTK works. I has been tested succesfully on Linux and Windows.")
 ("ch-image"
  . "ch-image is a common lisp image representation and processing library. It includes image file I/O, some simple drawing primitives, text rendering via FFI to freetype, and image manipulation such as discrete convolution and affine transformation. It can be found at http://cyrusharmon.org/projects?project=ch-image.")
 ("changed-stream"
  . "Is a lisp library for non-destructive changing of streams by inserting or deleting characters at a position. It lets you non-destructively ‘change’ an input stream, by specifying a) where the change occurs, b) how many characters were deleted at that point and c) what characters where typed-in at that point.")
 ("chanl"
  . "ChanL is a concurrency library built on top of bordeaux-threads that provides channels as thread-synchronisation primitives.")
 ("cheat-js") ("checkl")
 ("chemical-compounds"
  . "Sometimes you want to be able to parse chemical formulas in a normal, user-friendly syntax. For example, water is usually written \"H2O\". This syntax is good for users, but for Lisp code, you need a different representation. In chemical-compounds, H2O would be represented as ((H 2) O).")
 ("chillax"
  . "Chillax is an interface to CouchDB. It includes a CouchDB view server, which can be used to write CouchDB views in full, native Common Lisp.")
 ("chipz"
  . "Chipz is a decompression library for decompressing DEFLATE (RFC 1951) data such as ZLIB (RFC 1950), GZIP (RFC 1952), as well as bzip2.")
 ("chronicity"
  . "Chronicity is a Common Lisp library for parsing natural language date and time strings.")
 ("chtml-matcher")
 ("chunga"
  . "Chunga is a web/networking library which implements portable chunked HTTP streams as described in RFC 2616.")
 ("circular-streams") ("city-hash")
 ("cl+ssl" . "CL+SSL is a portable interface to OpenSSL.") ("cl-6502")
 ("cl-abstract-classes") ("cl-algebraic-data-type")
 ("cl-annot"
  . "cl-annot adds Python-like decorators (or Java-like annotations) to Common Lisp.")
 ("cl-anonfun" . "cl-anonfun - anonymous function helpers for Common Lisp.")
 ("cl-api"
  . "CL-API is a documentation tool that generates an API in HTML format, given a package name and reading docstrings.")
 ("cl-apple-plist") ("cl-arrows")
 ("cl-async"
  . "cl-async implements a higher-level interface for non-blocking, asynchronous programming in Common Lisp. It uses libevent as the backend via cl-libevent2.")
 ("cl-autorepo")
 ("cl-azure"
  . "cl-azure lets you access Microsoft Windows Azure cloud storage from Common Lisp.")
 ("cl-base32"
  . "CL-Base32 is a Common Lisp library for encoding / decoding bytes to / from base32 strings (RFC 4648).")
 ("cl-base64" . "cl-base64 provides base64 (RFC 1521) encoding and decoding.")
 ("cl-beanstalk")
 ("cl-bencode"
  . "cl-bencode is a library for working with the bencode BitTorrent data format.")
 ("cl-bert")
 ("cl-bibtex"
  . "CL-BibTeX is a replacement for the BibTeX document preparation program, written by Matthias Koeppe.")
 ("cl-binary-file"
  . "The binary file package contains utilities to read and write binary files. The utilities support writing bytes of size 8 bits (octets) and currently only two's complement signed encoding is supported. The package has also in-memory binary stream which can be used as a file stream. cl-btree depends on cl-unit-test (http://cl-unit-test.sourceforge.net). See unit tests for more information. ")
 ("cl-blapack"
  . "cl-blapack is a wrapper around the Fortran BLAS and LAPACK libraries for dense linear algebra.")
 ("cl-bloom") ("cl-bplustree")
 ("cl-btree"
  . "B-Tree implemented in Common Lisp. Stores key/value pairs onto disk based data structure. Current implementation has been tested with SBCL. ")
 ("cl-buchberger"
  . "cl-buchberger is a Common Lisp implementation of Buchberger's algorithm for the computation of Gröbner bases.")
 ("cl-cairo2"
  . "cl-cairo2 is a graphics library that provides Common Lisp bindings for the Cairo API.")
 ("cl-case-control")
 ("cl-charms"
  . "cl-charms is a set of CFFI bindings for libcurses (ncurses), a GUI-like console library. It is (currently) more or less a port of cl-ncurses which used the less portable UFFI system.")
 ("cl-cheshire-cat") ("cl-cli-parser") ("cl-clon")
 ("cl-closure-template"
  . "This is a Common Lisp port of Google Closure Templates HTML template library.")
 ("cl-colors"
  . "cl-colors contains named RGB colors like +blue+ and +darkolivegreen+. Calling it a graphics library is a bit of an overstatement, but its primary purpose is to be used in graphics. It supports alpha channels and HSV conversion/manipulation. The license is LLGPL.")
 ("cl-cont"
  . "cl-cont is a delimited continuations library for Common Lisp. Initially written for cl-weblocks web framework, it is now a stand alone library. See its project page at http://common-lisp.net/project/cl-cont.")
 ("cl-containers"
  . "CL-containers adds binary search trees, red-black trees, sparse arrays, and other useful containers. You can find more information at cl-containers home page. The cl-containers package is released under the MIT style license. It requires the following other packages: moptilities and metatilities. ")
 ("cl-couch")
 ("cl-creditcard"
  . "CL-creditcard & CL-Authorize-net: A common lisp library to enable processing credit card payments. Currently supports Authorize.net.")
 ("cl-cron"
  . "cl-cron is a simple cron like library that allows you to set up cron-like jobs and run them at predetermined times. The library has been tested on SBCL so far.")
 ("cl-crypt")
 ("cl-csv"
  . "CL-CSV is a library to parse and write csv (comma-separated-values) files. ")
 ("cl-ctrnn"
  . "CL-CTRNN is a Common Lisp library for the simulation of Continuous-Time Recurrent Neural Networks (CTRNNs).")
 ("cl-custom-hash-table"
  . "cl-custom-hash-table extends the hash table data structure by allowing the use of arbitrary TEST/HASH functions, in addition to the TEST functions allowed by the standard (EQ, EQL, EQUAL and EQUALP).")
 ("cl-data-format-validation"
  . "CL-DATA-FORMAT-VALIDATION is provides a consistent regular interface for data conversion and validation (in the form of strings usually) into internal data types and for formatting internal data back into external presentable strings, all according to a conversion or type specification. It was created by John A.R. Williams.")
 ("cl-dbi"
  . "CL-DBI is intended to provide the same SQL interface for each database.")
 ("cl-decimals")
 ("cl-devil"
  . "cl-devil provides CFFI bindings to the DevIL image file loading library.")
 ("cl-difflib"
  . "CL-DIFFLIB is a Lisp library for computing differences between sequences. It is based on the Python difflib module.")
 ("cl-docutils"
  . "CL-DOCUTILS is a Common Lisp implementation of the Docutils document preparation system for processing plaintext into such as HTML and LaTeX. ")
 ("cl-dot"
  . "CL-DOT is a library for easily generating dot (Graphviz) output from arbitrary Lisp data. Brief overview here, more details can be found in the documentation.")
 ("cl-dropbox") ("cl-emacs-if")
 ("cl-emb"
  . "CL-EMB is a templating library. Mainly used for HTML templates. Looks like a combination of Lisp Server Pages with HTML-TEMPLATE, sharing some goals of CLHP. Examples.")
 ("cl-enumeration") ("cl-epoch") ("cl-erlang-term") ("cl-ev")
 ("cl-ewkb"
  . "cl-ewkb is a geospatial library based on cl-wkb, supports PostGIS EWKB format (3d, 4d, embedded SRID extensions). ")
 ("cl-factoring")
 ("cl-fad"
  . "CL-FAD is a portable pathname library based on code from Peter Seibel's book Practical Common Lisp, providing a way to work with files and directories.")
 ("cl-fam") ("cl-fastcgi")
 ("cl-fbclient" . "cl-fbclient is an interface to Firebird SQL databases. ")
 ("cl-fluidinfo")
 ("cl-freetype2"
  . "cl-freetype2 is a CFFI wrapper for FreeType 2. While not doing anything particularly graphical itself, it may be considered a graphics library. It is licensed under the BSD license and LLGPL, similar to FreeType itself.")
 ("cl-fsnotify") ("cl-ftp" . "cl-ftp is an FTP client.")
 ("cl-fuse"
  . "CL-FUSE provides Common Lisp bindings for FUSE (file system in user space).")
 ("cl-fuse-meta-fs"
  . "CL-FUSE-Meta-FS is a layer above CL-FUSE that provides a Lispy wrapper around FUSE functionality.")
 ("cl-gambol") ("cl-gap-buffer")
 ("cl-gd" . "CL-GD is a UFFI wrapper for the GD graphics library.")
 ("cl-gdata"
  . "cl-gdata is an API to access the Google GData API's from Common Lisp.")
 ("cl-gearman") ("cl-gendoc") ("cl-gene-searcher") ("cl-general-accumulator")
 ("cl-generic-arithmetic")
 ("cl-geo"
  . "cl-geo is a geospatial library, providing a set of geographic data structures and operations. Though it's not a full GIS system, it's a simple set of tools for GIS applications.")
 ("cl-geocode")
 ("cl-geometry"
  . "cl-geometry is a Common Lisp package for simple two dimensional computational geometry.")
 ("cl-glfw"
  . "Is a public domain set of CFFI bindings for the GLFW OpenGL helper library. Also included are some automatically-generated OpenGL bindings (from gl.spec et al. files from http://www.opengl.org/registry/), a hand-written GLU binding, some convenience OpenGL macros (in the opengl: package), and a few examples.")
 ("cl-gpu"
  . "cl-gpu is a translator from a subset of Common Lisp to CUDA for writing GPU kernels.")
 ("cl-grace")
 ("cl-graph"
  . "Gary King is barely maintaining this package. Life got too busy and things moved around a lot and, the next thing you know, several years have gone by! CL-Graph is a set of Common Lisp utilities for manipulating graphs.")
 ("cl-gravatar")
 ("cl-growl"
  . "Growl is a notification/logging system for Mac OS X. It supports a small networking protocol called Growl Talk. This is a Common Lisp library that implements the Growl Talk protocol.")
 ("cl-gtk2"
  . "CL-GTK2 is a Common Lisp GUI library that provides access to the Gtk+ cross-platform GUI library in idiomatic Lisp style.")
 ("cl-haml")
 ("cl-heap"
  . "CL-HEAP implements the binary heap, Fibonacci heap, and priority queue data structures. ")
 ("cl-heredoc"
  . "cl-heredoc is an implementation of \"here documents\" that allow the user to embed literal strings into code or data without any need for quoting, something that is missing in both ANSI CL and popular implementations.")
 ("cl-hooks"
  . "cl-hooks allows the description of extension points in software using a concept of hooks (borrowed from Emacs). Hooks are, for example, used in the extensible text editor Emacs. cl-hooks provides a slightly generalized notion of hooks allowing hook implementations based on global variables, instance slots or other storage implementations. Other novel aspects are integration with the Common Lisp documentation system and a concept of hook combination.")
 ("cl-html-diff"
  . "CL-HTML-DIFF is a library for generating a human-readable diff of two HTML documents, using HTML. It's really just a Lisp translation of Aaron Swartz' HTML Diff for Python.")
 ("cl-html-parse"
  . "This system is no longer being maintained (at least not by Gary King).")
 ("cl-html5-parser" . "cl-html5-parser is a HTML5 parser for Common Lisp.")
 ("cl-i18n"
  . "cl-i18n is a GNU gettext-style internationalization library written by Leslie P. Polzer.")
 ("cl-iconv")
 ("cl-inflector"
  . "cl-inflector is a branch of vana-inflector to make it more standard and loadable / testable. It has the same goal of allowing easy singularization / pluralization of english words. ")
 ("cl-inotify"
  . "cl-inotify is an interface to the Linux inotify facility for file change notifications.")
 ("cl-interpol"
  . "CL-INTERPOL modifies the reader so that you can have interpolation of strings similar to Perl or Unix Shell scripts. It is a text processing convenience library. It also provides various ways to insert arbitrary characters into literal strings even if your editor/IDE doesn't support them. ")
 ("cl-irc"
  . "cl-irc is an IRC library written in Common Lisp. It features DCC, CTCP and most, if not all, of the IRC client protocol. More information can be obtained at common-lisp.net.")
 ("cl-irregsexp"
  . "cl-irregsexp is a fast regular expression library with a lispy alternative to traditional syntax for text matching.")
 ("cl-jpeg"
  . "This is an alternative name for the cljl JPEG image file library, added for ASDF-Install.")
 ("cl-jpl-util" . "cl-jpl-util utilities library required by jpl-queues.")
 ("cl-json" . "cl-json is a JSON parser and generator.") ("cl-json-template")
 ("cl-kanren-trs") ("cl-kyoto-cabinet")
 ("cl-l10n" . "cl-l10n is a localization library.") ("cl-l10n-cldr")
 ("cl-langutils")
 ("cl-lastfm" . "cl-lastfm is a Common Lisp wrapper to the Last.fm API.")
 ("cl-launch"
  . "cl-launch is a unix utility to make your Lisp software easily invokable from the shell command-line.")
 ("cl-lex"
  . "cl-lex is a set of Common Lisp macros for generating lexical analyzers automatically. Registers (including named registers) can be accessed by number or name in token generation code. The cl-ppcre regex library is used for implementing regular expressions. Lexers generated using cl-lex can be used with cl-yacc.")
 ("cl-lexer") ("cl-libevent2")
 ("cl-libusb"
  . "cl-libusb provides an interface to libusb, a library that provides access to USB devices across many different operating systems.")
 ("cl-libxml2"
  . "cl-libxml2 is high-level wrapper around libxml2 and libxslt libraries. For details, read documentation.")
 ("cl-llvm")
 ("cl-locale"
  . "cl-locale is a simple i18n (internationalization) library for Common Lisp.")
 ("cl-log" . "cl-log is a highly configurable logging library.") ("cl-ltsv")
 ("cl-m4"
  . "cl-m4 is a complete M4 programming language implementation from scratch targeted at GNU M4 compatibility.")
 ("cl-markdown"
  . "CL-Markdown is a Common Lisp implementation of John Gruber's Markdown document preparation language. More details can be found on its home page at Common-Lisp.net.")
 ("cl-markup" . "CL-MARKUP - Modern HTML generator library for Common Lisp.")
 ("cl-marshal"
  . "Simple and fast marshalling of all kinds of Lisp data structures. Convert any object into a s-expression, put it on a stream an revive it from there. Only minimal changes required to make your CLOS objects serializable. Actually you only need to add 1 method per baseclass.")
 ("cl-match" . "extended ML-style pattern matching library")
 ("cl-mathstats"
  . "This system is no longer being maintained (at least not by Gary King).")
 ("cl-mechanize"
  . "cl-mechanize is a port of the WWW::Mechanize Perl module for stateful programmatic web browsing, used for automating interaction with websites.")
 ("cl-mediawiki"
  . "CL-MediaWiki is a wrapper in Common Lisp around the media wiki web API.")
 ("cl-memcached"
  . "CL-MEMCACHED is an interface with the memcached object caching system.")
 ("cl-messagepack")
 ("cl-migrations"
  . "cl-migrations is a port of Ruby on Rails migrations feature to CL. It provides a simple way to version-control your database changes. As a web project grows, it's database will go through numerous structural changes, but if things go wrong with a new version, there should be a proper way to disable new changes to database and bring it back to a previously known good position. Rails has a very simple and neat way of doing this, so I have ported the feature to CL. ")
 ("cl-mime"
  . "CL-MIME is a library for constructing and manipulating MIME objects in Common Lisp. It supports creating MIME content for emails or web pages and can also parse existing MIME content to create MIME objects for manipulation. Supports (semi-)automatic encoding and decoding of MIME parts in quoted-printable or base64 form.")
 ("cl-modlisp"
  . "cl-modlisp is a Web library that implements a Common Lisp interface to Marc Battyani's mod_lisp apache module. cl-modlisp works with Allegro Common Lisp (ACL), SBCL, LispWorks, and CMU Common Lisp (CMUCL).")
 ("cl-monad-macros")
 ("cl-moneris"
  . "cl-moneris provides access to the Moneris payment processing web API.")
 ("cl-mongo" . "cl-mongo is an interface to the MongoDB document database.")
 ("cl-mongo-id")
 ("cl-mssql" . "cl-mssql is an interface to Microsoft SQL Server databases.")
 ("cl-murmurhash")
 ("cl-mustache"
  . "CL-MUSTACHE is a templating library. Inspired by ctemplate and et, Mustache is a framework-agnostic way to render logic-free views.")
 ("cl-mw"
  . "CL-MW is a library for rapid authoring of master/slave style distributed algorithms whose design promotes easy integration with high throughput batch processing systems like Condor, PBS, etc.")
 ("cl-mysql"
  . "cl-mysql is an interface to MySQL SQL databases. Unlikes CLSQL, it supports stored procedures and multiple statements/result sets.")
 ("cl-ncurses"
  . "An interface to the ncurses and pdcurses console user interface libraries for Common Lisp.")
 ("cl-neo4j"
  . "cl-neo4j is an interface to the Neo4j graph database. It uses the Neo4j REST API.")
 ("cl-netstrings"
  . "cl-netstrings is a tiny CL library for handling netstrings. It was written by Daniel Janus.")
 ("cl-ntriples" . "cl-ntriples is simple parser of N-Triples data")
 ("cl-num-utils"
  . "ASDF-install package (obsolete) http://github.com/tpapp/cl-num-utils/tarball/master")
 ("cl-nxt")
 ("cl-oauth"
  . "cl-oauth is an implementation of the OAuth 1.0a API authorization protocol.")
 ("cl-odesk")
 ("cl-op"
  . "cl-op is a partial application library inspired by Goo's op function and SRFI 26. ")
 ("cl-openal"
  . "cl-openal is a basic set of bindings to the OpenAL audio library. AL, ALC, and ALUT all have bindings written for them.")
 ("cl-opengl"
  . "cl-opengl is a set of CFFI bindings to the OpenGL, GLU and GLUT. ")
 ("cl-openid"
  . "Cl-OpenID is an implementation of OpenID protocol in Common Lisp. It implements OpenID Authentication 2.0 standard and is compatible with OpenID Authentication 1.1. Both Relying Party (formerly called OpenID Consumer), and OpenID Provider are implemented.")
 ("cl-openstack") ("cl-org-mode")
 ("cl-package-locks"
  . "A unified way of dealing with package locks on those implementations that support them (or that's the eventual goal anyways).")
 ("cl-parallel") ("cl-parser-combinators")
 ("cl-paypal"
  . "cl-paypal is an interface to the PayPal Express Checkout web API.")
 ("cl-pdf"
  . "CL-PDF is a cross-platform file format library for generating PDF files. It can be used for document preparation.")
 ("cl-permutation"
  . "CL-PERMUTATION is a Mathematics library for doing permutation and permutation group calculations written by Robert Smith.")
 ("cl-photo"
  . "cl-photo is a graphics library of calculators for photographic functions. Angle of view, field of view, circle of confusion, and depth of field calculations are well supported.")
 ("cl-plplot"
  . "cl-plplot provides a CFFI based interface to the open source scientific plotting library PLplot.")
 ("cl-plumbing")
 ("cl-png"
  . "CL-PNG reads and writes PNG (Portable Network Graphics) image files. It is implemented as a set of CFFI bindings to libpng.")
 ("cl-pop"
  . "CL-POP is a lisp networking library that provides a POP email client based on RFC 1939 ")
 ("cl-popen")
 ("cl-portaudio"
  . "CL-PortAudio is a audio package for interfacing with the PortAudio library.")
 ("cl-ppcre"
  . "CL-PPCRE is a portable, Perl-compatible regular expression library by Edi Weitz.")
 ("cl-prevalence"
  . "cl-prevalence is an implementation in Common Lisp of the Object Prevalence concept using both XML and s-expression based serialization.")
 ("cl-primality") ("cl-prime-maker") ("cl-proc")
 ("cl-proj"
  . "cl-proj is a geospatial library that provides CFFI-based Common Lisp bindings for the Proj.4 geographic projections library.")
 ("cl-project") ("cl-prolog")
 ("cl-protobufs"
  . "CL-PROTOBUFS is a Google Protocol Buffers library, originally written by Scott McKay at ITA.")
 ("cl-qprint"
  . "CL-QPrint is a library for encoding to and decoding from strings in quoted-printable (MIME) data format.")
 ("cl-quakeinfo")
 ("cl-quickcheck"
  . "cl-quickcheck is a test framework for automatic specification-based testing. It is a Common Lisp port of QuickCheck.")
 ("cl-rainbow")
 ("cl-randist"
  . "This package is a manual translation from C to common lisp of some random number generation functions of GSL library. The package also include the alias method implementation of Mario S. Mommer and my implementation of cut point method for discrete random variable generation.")
 ("cl-random"
  . "cl-random is a library for uni- and multivariate probability distributions and statistics functions.")
 ("cl-rcfiles"
  . "This very small Common Lisp library provides a way to add initialization files to ASDF systems. Every time ASDF loads , one or several corresponding .lisp files are loaded automatically afterwards. This lets you conditionally plug in additional behavior on a per-system basis without cluttering up any global Common Lisp init file.")
 ("cl-rdfxml"
  . "CL-RDFXML is an RDF/XML parser written by Joshua Taylor. CL-RDFXML is well documented, and source is hosted at the GitHub CL-RDFXML page.")
 ("cl-recaptcha"
  . "cl-recaptcha is a trivial library for using the recaptcha.com service.")
 ("cl-redis"
  . "CL-Redis: Common Lisp client library for Redis database, an advanced key/value store. It is thoroughly tested with the Redis-2.0.0-rc2 release.")
 ("cl-rfc2047"
  . "CL-RFC2047 is an ASDF installable package by Christian Haselbach that provides an encoding and decoding text according to RFC 2047 (MIME).")
 ("cl-rmath")
 ("cl-routes"
  . "cl-routes is Common Lisp re-implementation of the Rails routes system for mapping URL's (also, see http://routes.groovie.org/) ")
 ("cl-rrd")
 ("cl-rss"
  . "This package provides a Common Lisp library for fetching and parsing Remote Site Summary data via HTTP. Currently, it supports RSS versions 0.90, 0.91, and 0.92.")
 ("cl-rsvg2")
 ("cl-s3" . "CL-S3 is a client interface to the Amazon S3 web API.") ("cl-sam")
 ("cl-sanitize"
  . "cl-sanitize is a whitelist-based HTML sanitizer. Given a list of acceptable elements and attributes, cl-sanitize will remove all unacceptable HTML from a string.")
 ("cl-sasl"
  . "cl-sasl is a client implementation of the Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL) networking protocol.")
 ("cl-scribd")
 ("cl-scrobbler"
  . "cl-scrobbler is a binding to the Last.fm scrobbling API. It was designed for use as a Shuffletron plugin.")
 ("cl-selenium"
  . "CL-Selenium is an interface to the Selenium web app testing system.")
 ("cl-sendmail"
  . "CL-Sendmail is a library for sending email using the external program 'sendmail'.")
 ("cl-sentiment")
 ("cl-skip-list"
  . "cl-skip-lisp is a lock-free skip list implementation that works with SBCL 1.0.42 and above. Its source can be found here: http://github.com/kraison/cl-skip-list.")
 ("cl-slice") ("cl-smtp" . "CL-SMTP is an SMTP client.") ("cl-speedy-queue")
 ("cl-sphinx")
 ("cl-sqlite"
  . "cl-sqlite is a library for interacting with sqlite databases through SQL.")
 ("cl-stdutils")
 ("cl-stm"
  . "CL-STM is a concurrency library providing Software Transactional Memory.")
 ("cl-stomp"
  . "cl-stomp is an implementation of STOMP (Streaming Text Orientated Messaging Protocol). It notably allows you to interface to systems like ActiveMQ. ")
 ("cl-stopwatch")
 ("cl-store"
  . "cl-store serializes and deserializes Common Lisp objects to and from streams. It currently runs on SBCL, CMUCL, CLISP, ACL, OpenMCL and Lispworks.")
 ("cl-string-complete" . "Describe cl-string-complete here")
 ("cl-svg"
  . "cl-svg offers a somewhat friendlier way to produce SVG image files than hand-rolling XML.")
 ("cl-svm"
  . "CL-SVM is a pure lisp implementation of support vector machines (SVMs).")
 ("cl-swap-file"
  . "Swap file is a fixed block size storage library implemented in Common Lisp. Swap file is utilized as a storage in cl-btree and clufs projects.")
 ("cl-syntax")
 ("cl-syslog"
  . "cl-syslog provides access to the Unix syslog logging facility. It has currently only been tested under Linux. The code was taken from OnShore's ODCL and has been enhanced to include an ASDF system, conditions, options to openlog(3) and it now uses UFFI instead of CMUCL-specific FFI code.")
 ("cl-table")
 ("cl-test-more"
  . "CL-TEST-MORE is a unit test framework inspired by Perl's Test::More.")
 ("cl-tk"
  . "CL-TK provides a simple bridge to Tcl/Tk. It will fire up a Tk window, handle events, and allow you to evaluate Tcl code.")
 ("cl-tokyo-cabinet") ("cl-tulip-graph")
 ("cl-tuples" . "cl-tuples is a libray for writing optimised vector math.")
 ("cl-twitter"
  . "This is an interface to the twitter api . It extends the api originally written by Ian Eslick. .")
 ("cl-typesetting"
  . "cl-typesetting is a Common Lisp typesetting/document preparation application with capabilities similar to TeX. It generates PDF output via CL-PDF.")
 ("cl-uglify-js"
  . "A JavaScript compressor (minifier). Given an AST generated by parse-js, it is able to:")
 ("cl-unicode"
  . "CL-UNICODE provides Common Lisp implementations with knowledge about Unicode characters including their name, their general category, the scripts and blocks they belong to, their numerical value, and several other properties. It also provides the ability to replace the standard syntax for reading Lisp characters with one that is Unicode-aware and is used to enhance CL-PPCRE with Unicode properties.")
 ("cl-unification"
  . "CL-Unification is a full blown unification library, supporting unification over any Common Lisp objects (and not just lists and atoms).")
 ("cl-utilities" . "A library of semi-standard utilities.")
 ("cl-v4l2" . "cl-v4l2 is a CFFI interface to Video4Linux2.")
 ("cl-variates"
  . "This system is no longer being maintained (at least not by Gary King).")
 ("cl-vectors"
  . " cl-vectors is a pure CL vector rasterization and manipulation system. cl-vectors is available here. ASDF-install package (obsolete) http://projects.tuxee.net/cl-vectors/files/cl-vectors-0.1.3.tar.gz 2007-04-16 - I (Frederic Jolliton) have added a signature to the archive. My key dedicated to package signature can be found at http://projects.tuxee.net/key. graphics library")
 ("cl-wal"
  . "cl-wal implements simple write ahead log. Write ahead log maintains journal for a master file. Journal is managed with commit, rollback and recover calls. Entries to journal are added with write. The write ahead log does not define any semantics for entries but the user must provide functions for reading and writing both log and master file entries.")
 ("cl-web-crawler" . " cl-web-crawler is a web crawling library. ")
 ("cl-webdav"
  . "CL-WEBDAV is a WebDAV server written in Common Lisp and based on Hunchentoot.")
 ("cl-who" . "CL-WHO is an HTML generator written by Edi Weitz.")
 ("cl-wkb"
  . "cl-wkb is a geospatial library that implements the OGC Well-Known Binary geographic geometry data model, and provides WKB encoding and decoding functionality.")
 ("cl-xmlspam"
  . "XML Stream PAttern Matcher - concise, regexp-like pattern matching on streaming XML.")
 ("cl-xmpp"
  . "cl-xmpp is an XMPP client implementation of RFCs 3920 and 3921 which can be thought of as the basis of any Jabber-compliant client. It provides messaging, roster, contact and presence management.")
 ("cl-yacc"
  . " CL-Yacc is a LALR(1) parser generator for Common Lisp, somewhat like Zebu or LALR.cl. ")
 ("cl-yahoo-finance")
 ("cl-zmq"
  . "cl-zmq is a set of CFFI bindings for ZeroMQ 2.0 messaging system.")
 ("clack"
  . "Clack is a Web Application Environment for Common Lisp inspired by Python's WSGI and Ruby's Rack. Your awesome web framework should base on this.")
 ("clavatar")
 ("clawk"
  . "CLAWK is an AWK text manipulation programming language implementation embedded into Common Lisp, by Michael Parker.")
 ("clazy")
 ("clem"
  . "CLEM is a lisp package for representating and performing various operations on matrices. It can be found at http://cyrusharmon.org/projects?project=clem or on github")
 ("cleric"
  . "CLERIC (Common Lisp Erlang Interface) is an implementation of the Erlang distribution protocol, comparable with erl_interface and jinterface.")
 ("clesh" . "CLESH - the Common Lisp Embedded Shell")
 ("clfswm"
  . " CLFSWM is a 100% Common Lisp X11 window manager (based on Tinywm and Stumpwm. Many thanks to them). It can be driven only with the keyboard or with the mouse. ")
 ("clhs"
  . "The Common Lisp HyperSpec (CLHS) is a non-free hyperlinked version of the ANSI Common Lisp Standard. It may be downloaded gratis but has certain restrictions that make it strictly speaking non-free. Also available in Debian as package hyperspec, and from Quicklisp through the clhs ASDF wrapper: (ql:quickload \"clhs\").")
 ("clickr"
  . "Clickr is a high-level binding library of the Flickr API for Common Lisp. The current version : 0.2 ")
 ("climacs" . "Climacs is an Emacs-like text editor written in Common Lisp.")
 ("clnuplot"
  . "This system is no longer being maintained (at least not by Gary King).")
 ("clod"
  . "CLOD is a Common Lisp doc-generator, similar to Albert, Cldoc and so on. It works by introspection rather than by parsing source files. It targets Emacs Org mode, which in turn can export it to HTML, PDF, DocBook, LaTeX or other formats. ")
 ("clon"
  . "There are three packages by the name of \"CLON\", although the third one doesn't actually introduce any conflict because the package is named com.dvlsoft.clon.")
 ("clonsigna"
  . "Clonsigna is a Common Lisp library that allows interaction with IMAP4rev1 servers. ")
 ("clos-diff"
  . "clos-diff is a library to create and apply diffs of CLOS objects in a compact representation. The library also preforms the diffs recursively, so that (theoretically) infinite layers of objects can be diffed. The only dependency is closer-mop.")
 ("closer-mop"
  . "Closer to MOP is a compatibility layer that rectifies many of the absent or incorrect MOP features as detected by MOP Feature Tests. This page keeps ASDF-Install happy. See Closer to MOP for details.")
 ("closure-common" . " Info Project name: closure-common")
 ("closure-html"
  . "Closure-html is a portable HTML parsing library that understands malformed HTML. Info Project name: chtml, Closure HTML")
 ("clot"
  . "CLOT is a library for plotting data sets in charts of different types. Currently it supports bar, histogram, line, and pie charts, all with some optional graphic decorations. It requires SCLF and CL-GD.")
 ("clouchdb" . "Clouchdb is an interface to the CouchDb databases.")
 ("clpmr"
  . "CLPMR is the Common Lisp ProcMail Replacement. procmail is a mail delivery agent capable of sorting incoming email into various directories and filtering out spam messages.")
 ("clpython"
  . "CLPython is an implementation of the Python programming language in Common Lisp.")
 ("clsql"
  . "CLSQL is a Database interface that can access a number of different SQL database engines. It also includes a CLOS ORM. It is maintained by Kevin Rosenberg.")
 ("clsql-fluid"
  . "CLSQL-Fluid is a backend for CLSQL that provides trivial SQL database connection thread-safety for most applications. It solves the problem of client code and DB-backed objects sharing a connection across threads, while still allowing that code and those objects to be thread-agnostic.")
 ("clsql-helper"
  . "CLSQL-helper is an library of utilities to make interacting with clsql easier. ")
 ("clsql-orm"
  . "CLSQL-ORM is an library to generate clsql view-classes from existing databases, by introspecting on the \"information_schema\" of the running database.")
 ("cluck"
  . "Cluck is a Common Lisp library written by Kevin Rosenberg for assisting in configuring timers on microcontroller chips. Current functions include:")
 ("clunit" . "CLUnit is a Test Framework that comes with CLOCC.")
 ("clws" . "clws is a WebSocket server, using IOlib")
 ("clx"
  . "CLX provides an implementation of the X Window System protocol to Lisp graphics library[ies] and applications. It is the Common Lisp equivalent of Xlib. ")
 ("clx-cursor"
  . "CLX-CURSOR is library for rendering antialiased cursor using CLX, XRender. It supports theming and animated cursors. Cursor images are loaded from Xcur files.")
 ("clx-truetype"
  . "CLX-TRUETYPE is pure Common Lisp library for antialiased font rendering using CLX, XRender, ZPB-TTF, CL-VECTORS.")
 ("clx-xembed") ("clx-xkeyboard")
 ("cobstor"
  . "Cobstor is a tool and an API to seamlessly access legacy Cobol application files from Common Lisp. The design is client/server; those familiar with IPC architectures such as Corba or Java Beans, should understand cobstor in no time. Lisp proxy stubs talk via a simple IPC layer to Cobol agents which in turn access the database for you. All you need is the Cobol record declaration (the copy file, in Cobol speak) and cobstor will automatically generate the Cobol agent and the Lisp proxy for you.")
 ("coleslaw"
  . "coleslaw is static-site blog software a la Jekyll written by Brit Butler.")
 ("collectors"
  . "collectors is a common lisp library that aims to ease accumulating values")
 ("colorize"
  . "Colorize is an Application for colorizing chunks of code in several programming languages. It is the same colorizing engine as lisppaste made standalone. It's licensed under the MIT license, written by Brian Mastenbrook, and currently maintained by Brit Butler.")
 ("com.clearly-useful.generic-collection-interface")
 ("com.clearly-useful.iterate-plus") ("com.clearly-useful.iterator-protocol")
 ("com.clearly-useful.protocols") ("com.google.base") ("com.informatimago")
 ("command-line-arguments") ("common-lisp-actors")
 ("common-lisp-stat"
  . "Common Lisp Statistics -- based on LispStat but updated for Common Lisp and incorporating lessons from R.")
 ("commonqt" . "CommonQt is a SMOKE-based binding to the Qt GUI library.")
 ("computable-reals"
  . "COMPUTABLE-REALS is a Mathematics library for dealing with arbitrary precision reals.")
 ("conduit-packages"
  . "conduit-packages is a language extension providing some enhancements to Common Lisp's package system. It allows the creation of extended packages that may dynamically share symbols with other packages, thus extending them. The extended packages are called \"conduits\", since they serve as conduits for other packages. You can also create packages which extend other packages excepting a few symbols, so you can create, for instance, custom CL-like packages, such as subsets, or CL-with-a-few-things-done-differently. You can also `clone' packages - create another package which shares all (external and internal) symbols with an existing package.")
 ("conium"
  . "Conium is a portability library for debugger- and compiler-related tasks in Common Lisp.")
 ("contextl"
  . "ContextL is a language extension for Context-oriented Programming. Currently, there is no documentation available, but you can find a small test case in the distribution and an introduction to ContextL's features in a first overview paper.")
 ("css-lite"
  . "css-lite generates CSS from an s-exp syntax. When compiled with Parenscript loaded in the Lisp image, it also provides the same CSS generation facilities in Parenscript-generated JavaScript code.")
 ("css-selectors"
  . "CSS-selectors is an XML query language for finding specific nodes in cxml dom documents and dom sub trees using standard CSS3 selectors.")
 ("csv-parser")
 ("curly"
  . "Curly is set of two reader macros for easy function currying and composition. It was inspired Arc's syntax for currying, using square brackets. Curly creates anonymous functions (lambdas) with literal function composition instead of trying smarter approach (like using (REDUCE #'FUNCALL ...)) so that the compiler is able to do more optimizations.")
 ("curve")
 ("cxml"
  . "Namespace-aware, validating XML parser with SAX and StAX-like interfaces.")
 ("cxml-rng"
  . "cxml-rng is an implementation of Relax NG schema validation written in Common Lisp")
 ("cxml-rpc") ("cxml-stp" . "An alternative to DOM inspired by XOM") ("daemon")
 ("dartsclhashtree") ("dartsclsequencemetrics") ("data-sift")
 ("data-table"
  . "data-table is a library providing a data structure that has rows of data and column names and types (ie database results)")
 ("date-calc"
  . "Date-Calc aims to be a port of the Perl Date::Calc time-handling library.")
 ("dbus")
 ("de.setf.wilbur"
  . "Wilbur was originally conceived as Nokia Research Center's toolkit for programming Semantic Web applications that use RDF (as well as XML), written in Common Lisp.")
 ("declt"
  . "Declt (pronounce dec'let) is a Texinfo reference manual generator for ASDF systems.")
 ("def-symbol-readmacro") ("deflate")
 ("defmacro-enhance"
  . "Extend DEFMACRO facility in spirit of Let Over Lambda.")
 ("defmemo") ("defstar")
 ("defsystem-compatibility"
  . "This system is no longer being maintained (at least not by Gary King).")
 ("deoxybyte-gzip") ("deoxybyte-io") ("deoxybyte-systems") ("deoxybyte-unix")
 ("deoxybyte-utilities")
 ("diff"
  . "DIFF is a simple asdf-installable Text library which can compute unified-style or context-style diffs between two files. It also includes code to compute copy/insert deltas via the vdelta algorithm and encode those diffs in svndiff format. Other algorithms and encodings are planned for future versions. Version 0.4 includes a reader for \"patch\" files; an interface for applying patches is planned for future versions. Comments on the interface or wanted algorithms greatly appreciated.")
 ("djula"
  . "Djula is a Common Lisp port of the Django HTML template language. it also adds several knew features documented on its homepage")
 ("dlist"
  . "dlist is a simple, portable Common Lisp implementation of the double linked list (a very common data structure). It is small, BSD licensed and requires no external dependencies. ")
 ("do-urlencode") ("docbrowser")
 ("documentation-template"
  . "documentation-template is a documentation tool that automatically produces HTML documentation from the exported symbols of a package. It is written and used by Edi Weitz to make the webpages for his libraries.")
 ("donuts") ("doplus")
 ("drakma"
  . "Drakma is a fully-featured Common Lisp HTTP client library that knows how to handle HTTP/1.1 chunking, persistent connections, re-usable sockets, SSL, continuable uploads, cookies, and other things.")
 ("dso-lex"
  . "dso-lex allows lexers to be defined using regular expressions a la cl-ppcre. A lexer will convert (or tokenize) a string into a list of tokens (consisting of a token-class and the token's image). For example:")
 ("dso-util"
  . "A small set of utilities, functions and macros, by David Owen.")
 ("dynamic-classes"
  . "Dynamic-Classes lets you specify CLOS classes (for example, as arguments to make-instance) using parameters at run-time, letting you use mixins more conveniently.")
 ("eager-future" . "Eager Future has been superseded by Eager Future2")
 ("eager-future2") ("ec2")
 ("elephant"
  . "Elephant is a LLGPLed portable object database based on Sleepycat (Berkeley DB) or relational databases. Here is the Elephant home page.")
 ("elf")
 ("enhanced-eval-when"
  . "enhanced-eval-when provides an enhanced EVAL-WHEN macro that supports (eval-when t ...) as a shorthand for (eval-when (:compile-toplevel :load-toplevel :execute) ...), addressing concerns about verbosity. An ENHANCED-EVAL-WHEN alias is also supported, as well as an EVAL-ALWAYS macro and package nickname, for good measure.")
 ("enhanced-multiple-value-bind"
  . "enhanced-multiple-value-bind provides an enhanced MULTIPLE-VALUE-BIND macro that adds support for lambda keywords by expanding to a MULTIPLE-VALUE-CALL when necessary. This makes catching multiple-value &rest and &key much more lightweight and convenient. A MULTIPLE-VALUE-&BIND alias is supported.")
 ("eos"
  . "Eos is a drop-in replacement for the FiveAM Test Framework that is portable Common Lisp and has no dependencies on other libraries.")
 ("escalator")
 ("esrap" . "ESRAP -- a packrat parser generator for Common Lisp")
 ("esrap-peg"
  . "Esrap-PEG is a parser generator; it takes files with portable (language-agnostic) PEG notation and produces Esrap rules to parse this grammar. It also has some utility code for processing resulting ASTs.")
 ("evol"
  . "evol - entrenched virtues of lisp (love reversed) aims to be a compatible and full-fledged replacement for the GNU autotools stack targeted at coping with the autotools' shortcomings while not repeating the mistakes made and still being made at comparable build tool projects.")
 ("exscribe"
  . "Exscribe is a CL-based document preparation tool in the spirit of Manuel Serrano's Scribe.")
 ("ext-blog"
  . "ext-blog is a common lisp blog software which supports custom theme and you can port a WordPress theme for it.")
 ("extended-reals")
 ("external-program"
  . "external-program provides a largely-portable wrapper for running programs external to the Lisp process (ie - exec()). ")
 ("f-underscore"
  . "F-underscore is a convenience library to make writing lambdas shorter without having to resort to special syntax like arc's square brackets.")
 ("f2cl"
  . "F2CL is a Fortran 77 programming language to Common Lisp translator. It comes as part of CLOCC. It is also available as a Debian package named cl-f2cl.")
 ("fare-csv" . "fare-csv is a library for reading and writing CSV files.")
 ("fare-matcher"
  . "fare-matcher extends CL with ML-like pattern matching in an extensible way.")
 ("fare-memoization"
  . "fare-memoization is a library for memoizing functions.")
 ("fare-mop"
  . "fare-mop has a few simple utilities relying on the MOP. It depends on CLOSER-MOP for portable MOP access.")
 ("fare-quasiquote"
  . "fare-quasiquote is a portable quasiquote implementation that plays well with pattern-matching")
 ("fare-utils" . "fare-utils is a collection of utilities from Fare Rideau.")
 ("fast-io")
 ("femlisp"
  . "FEMLISP is a Mathematics Application which solves partial differential equations with the help of the finite element method (FEM).")
 ("ffa"
  . "Foreign friendly arrays for Common Lisp. Provides a macro that allows foreign functions to access the contents of the array at a given pointer, using the best available method given the Common Lisp implementation.")
 ("fft"
  . "A Common Lisp library to do Fast Fourier Transform on a multi-dimensional array of numbers. See Bordeaux-FFT for a faster implementation for one-dimensional arrays.")
 ("firephp")
 ("fiveam"
  . "FiveAM is a Test Framework whose goal is to be as simple as possible.")
 ("flexi-streams"
  . "FLEXI-STREAMS is a library which implements \"virtual\" bivalent streams that can be layered atop real binary/bivalent streams. It can be used to read and write character data in various single- or multi-octet character encodings which can be changed on the fly. It also supplies in-memory binary streams which are similar to string streams.")
 ("flexichain"
  . "Flexichain is an API for editable sequences. Its primary use is in end-user applications that edit sequences of objects such as text editors (characters), word processors (characters, paragraphs, sections, etc), score editors (notes, clusters, measures, etc), though it can also be used as a stack and a double-ended queue.")
 ("floating-point"
  . "Floating-point is a Common Lisp library with functions for calculating the error between and predicates for determining the equality of 2 floating point numbers. The routines were originally developed for lisp-unit, but are generally useful and warranted a separate package.")
 ("fnv") ("folio" . "From the README:") ("fomus")
 ("formlets"
  . "This package implements self-validating formlets for Hunchentoot (it assumes cl-who). Formlets are an abstraction for standard HTML forms; given that server-side validation is typically the same two step process, it seemed natural to incorporate that into the PLT-Racket style formlet declarations.")
 ("fsbv")
 ("fset"
  . "FSet is a functional set-theoretic collections data structures library by Scott L. Burson.")
 ("fucc"
  . "FUCC is universal parser generator for Common Lisp, currently implementing LR0, SLR, LALR, LR1 and LL grammars. GLR, CYK and other algorithms are planned.")
 ("funds"
  . "Funds provides portable, purely functional data structures written in Common Lisp.")
 ("garbage-pools"
  . "garbage-pools is Common Lisp re-implementation the APR Pools for resource management.")
 ("gbbopen"
  . "GBBopen is a high-performance open source distributed systems framework based on the concepts that were explored and refined in the UMass Generic Blackboard system and the commercial GBB product.")
 ("generic-sequences") ("genworks-gdl")
 ("getopt"
  . "getopt is a library for processing command-line arguments. The syntax of the command-line is modeled after GNU's getopt_long function.")
 ("glaw")
 ("glop"
  . "Glop is an OpenGL window and input management library for win32 and X11, providing a native Lisp alternative to GLUT and GLFW. It does platform-independent OpenGL window setup and input handling. Glop provides direct bindings to system libraries and thus does not require any additional libraries.")
 ("glu-tessellate")
 ("gordon"
  . "Gordon is a Common Lisp library that can be used to generate Adobe Flash files and thus useful in web applications. Found here. ")
 ("graylex"
  . "graylex offers a means to do string operations on input streams without slurping all input at once by using Common Lisp Gray Streams, fixed-sized and flexible buffers.")
 ("green-threads"
  . "GREEN-THREADS is a portable library implementing green threads (lightweight, cooperatively multitasked, user threads) in Common Lisp.")
 ("group-by"
  . "Group-by is a Common Lisp library to help group data into trees (of various formats) based on common/shared values")
 ("gsharp"
  . "Gsharp is a graphical, interactive score editing application for standard Music notation. It can be customized by dynamically loading new Lisp code. The Gsharp user interface is based on CLIM. Source code, documentation and sample output are available at the project site.")
 ("gsll"
  . "The GNU Scientific Library for Lisp (GSLL) allows you to use the GNU Scientific Library (GSL) from Common Lisp. This library provides a full range of common mathematics operations useful to scientific and engineering applications. The design of the GSLL interface is such that access to most of the GSL library is possible in a Lisp-natural way; the intent is that the user not be hampered by the restrictions of the C language in which GSL has been written. GSLL thus provides interactive use of GSL for getting quick answers, even for someone not intending to program in Lisp. Topics include: roots of polynomials, special functions, vector and matrix operations, permutations, sorting, BLAS support, linear algebra, eigensystems, fast Fourier transforms, quadrature, random numbers, quasi-random sequences, random distributions, statistics, histograms, N-tuples, Monte Carlo integration, simulated annealing, differential equations, interpolation, numerical differentiation, chebyshev approximation, series acceleration, discrete Hankel transforms, root-finding, minimization least-squares fitting, IEEE floating-point, discrete wavelet transforms.")
 ("gtfl"
  . "GTFL is a graphical terminal application for Common Lisp. The client is a html page running in a web browser and GTFL provides mechanisms for sending content to the client page from within Lisp (using HUNCHENTOOT and HT-SIMPLE-AJAX).")
 ("gtk-cffi"
  . "GTK-CFFI is a Common Lisp GUI library, that provides concise and idiomatic syntax to use GTK+ library (for now GTK+ 3.0).")
 ("gzip-stream"
  . "gzip-stream is a simple wrapper around salza which gives CL users gzip compression and decompression in the form of streams (gzip-input-stream and gzip-output-stream).")
 ("hemlock"
  . "Hemlock is an Emacs-like editor that comes with CMUCL (Debian users need to get the cmucl-source package). Why not take a CloserLookAtHemlock?")
 ("hh-aws"
  . "HH-AWS is library for accessing the Simple Storage Service (S3), SimpleDB (SDB), Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), and Simple Queue Service (SQS) Amazon Web Services.")
 ("hh-redblack"
  . "hh-redblack provides in-memory and disk-based red-black trees.")
 ("hh-web"
  . "HH-Web is a library of Common Lisp code intended to simplify development of modern web applications.")
 ("hinge")
 ("ht-simple-ajax"
  . "HT-SIMPLE-AJAX is an Ajax library for the HUNCHENTOOT web server. It allows to call ordinary Lisp functions from within an html page using javascript and asynchronous client/server communication.")
 ("html-encode"
  . "html-encode is a small library for encoding text in various HTML-savvy formats. These are the functions exported from the html-encode package:")
 ("html-entities"
  . " HTML-ENTITIES is a library for encoding and decoding (escaping and unescaping) special characters in HTML (or SGML or XML, whatever). See the home page for documentation and downloads. ")
 ("html-sugar")
 ("html-template"
  . "HTML-TEMPLATE is an HTML template library to use templates much like Perl's HTML::Template. Despite of its name, HTML-TEMPLATE is HTML-agnostic and could be used for templating other documents.")
 ("http-parse") ("hu.dwim.asdf") ("hu.dwim.common") ("hu.dwim.common-lisp")
 ("hu.dwim.computed-class") ("hu.dwim.def") ("hu.dwim.defclass-star")
 ("hu.dwim.delico") ("hu.dwim.logger" . "hu,dwim,logger is a logging library.")
 ("hu.dwim.partial-eval") ("hu.dwim.perec") ("hu.dwim.quasi-quote")
 ("hu.dwim.rdbms") ("hu.dwim.reiterate") ("hu.dwim.serializer")
 ("hu.dwim.stefil") ("hu.dwim.syntax-sugar")
 ("hu.dwim.util"
  . "A collection of utilities used mostly by the libraries at dwim dot hu.")
 ("hu.dwim.walker")
 ("hunchentoot"
  . "Hunchentoot is a robust and easy to use HTTP server. As a stand-alone web server, Hunchentoot is capable of HTTP/1.1 chunking (both directions), persistent connections (keep-alive), and SSL, but it can also sit behind the popular Apache using Marc Battyani's mod_lisp.")
 ("hunchentoot-auth"
  . "Authentication support for Hunchentoot by Cyrus Harmon.")
 ("hunchentoot-cgi")
 ("hunchentoot-vhost"
  . "Virtual host support for hunchentoot, by Cyrus Harmon.")
 ("hyperobject"
  . "Hyperobject is a Object Representation package for development. It emphasizes object printing in ASCII text, HTML, and XML formats both with and without field labels and hyperlinks to related objects.")
 ("idna" . "International Domain Name functions for Common Lisp.")
 ("ie3fp"
  . "IE3FP is a library to code and decode floating point numbers in IEEE 754 binary format.")
 ("ieee-floats"
  . "IEEE-Floats provides a way of converting values of type float and double-float to and from their binary format representation as defined by IEEE 754 (which is commonly used by processors and network protocols).")
 ("image"
  . "Image is an image-drawing with a few drawing primitives (circles, ellipses, lines, rectangles, text). It currently has code for \"dumping\" an image to either X11 drawables or GIF files (via Skippy). It currently only has a single font available for drawing text, but it should be possible to extend the font handling to load fonts from other formats.")
 ("imago"
  . "IMAGO is an image manipulation and image file input/output library written by Matthieu Villeneuve. It is licensed under the LLGPL.")
 ("incf-cl"
  . "(INCF CL) is a collection of utilities. It provides the following features:")
 ("incognito-keywords"
  . "incognito-keywords introduces a new kind of keyword that looks just like any non-keyword symbol and allows safe usage of convenient but clashy symbol names by multiple libraries without conflicts through sharing. Some names that might benefit are (alist blist plist macro operator index &doc &decl &rest+ &destructure &ignored &ignorable).")
 ("inferior-shell"
  . "Inferior-shell is a library to control external programs, and write CL code instead of shell scripts.")
 ("infix-dollar-reader") ("inotify") ("intercom")
 ("iolib"
  . "I/O(mainly networking) library containing: a BSD sockets library, a DNS resolver and an I/O multiplexer that supports select(2), epoll(4) and kqueue(2).")
 ("ip-interfaces"
  . "ip-interfaces provides a convenient way to obtain a list of available networking interfaces on a machine.")
 ("irc-logger"
  . "irc-logger is a IRC tool written by Kevin Rosenberg which uses the cl-irc library to provide multichannel Internet Relay Chat (IRC) logging. It is used for the IRCBrowse IRC log site.")
 ("ironclad"
  . "Ironclad is a Common Lisp Cryptography package; several block encryption algorithms and hash functions are included with the initial release. Its initial impetus was to unify several of the cryptographic packages for Common Lisp (such as the MD5 and SHA1 implementations floating around), but it aims at providing a cryptographic toolkit similar in scope to something like OpenSSL or Crypto++.")
 ("iterate"
  . "iterate is a lispy and extensible replacement for the LOOP macro.")
 ("iterate-clsql") ("jenkins")
 ("jpl-queues"
  . "jpl-queues implements a few different kinds of queue data structures.")
 ("js") ("js-parser")
 ("jsown" . "jsown is a fast JSON parser including a generator.")
 ("jwacs"
  . "jwacs stands for Javascript With Advanced Continuation Support. It's a program transformer that converts an extended Javascript syntax to regular Javascript. The extended syntax provides the ability to capture and resume first-class continuations.")
 ("kl-verify" . "kl-verify is a library for generating captchas.") ("km")
 ("kmrcl"
  . "KMRCL is a collection of utilities used by a number of Kevin Rosenberg's CL packages.")
 ("l-math"
  . "L-MATH is a library for simple linear algebra in geometric applications. Vector and matrix classes are available, as are simple linear interpolation functions and various operations related to creating rotation matrices using pre-specified frames. ")
 ("lambda-gtk"
  . "Lambda-GTK is an apparently complete set of GTK+2 bindings, autogenerated by FFIGEN. From the website: λgtk is a cross-platform Lisp interface to the complete GTK+2 family of shared libraries. λgtk currently runs in the following Lisp environments: PPC/Darwin OpenMCL 0.14.2-p1 x86/Linux SBCL 0.8.16 x86/Linux CMUCL 19a and is released under the Lisp Lesser General Public License (LLGPL). If you are familiar with Lisp function call syntax and the GTK API then programming with λgtk is straightforward. See examples.lisp for some demonstrations translated from the GTK tutorial. It was generously released by Rick Taube, using Gary Byers' ffigen. The website is at http://common-lisp.net/project/lambda-gtk/ For a collection of code snippets using using lambda-gtk, see: lambda-gtk-examples ASDF-install package (obsolete) http://ignas.pov.lt/lambda-gtk_0.1.tar.gz")
 ("lambda-reader"
  . "lambda-reader lets you use λ instead of LAMBDA to define anonymous functions.")
 ("latex-table"
  . "Latex-table is a simple Common Lisp library for writing vectors and matrices into LaTeX tables. It won't allow you to do anything magical that you could not do in LaTeX otherwise, but it simplifies formatting (mostly numerical) tables. Floats can be aligned on the decimal dot.")
 ("let-plus"
  . "LET+ extends let* with destructuring forms for lists and vectors, slot access for structures and classes, convenient forms for short functions, property list and hash table elements, and various other constructs, with a consistent interface that supports editor hints via placeholder macros.")
 ("letrec")
 ("levenshtein"
  . "The Levenshtein Distance algorithm finds the minimum number of operations needed to transform one string into the other, where an operation is an insertion, deletion, or substitution of a single character.")
 ("lfarm") ("lhstats")
 ("lift"
  . "The LIsp Framework for Testing is another test framework in the JUnit / SUnit lineage. ")
 ("linedit"
  . "Linedit is a portable line-editing console library for Common Lisp.")
 ("lisa"
  . "Lisp Intelligent Software Agents - is a production rule system for Common Lisp. Its purpose is to provide extensive support for the development of intelligent applications, including reasoning-capable software agents. LISA employs a CLOS implementation of Rete and is based on CLIPS and JESS")
 ("lisp-executable"
  . "The lisp-executable library provides a language for defining programs and creating executables from Lisp systems.")
 ("lisp-gflags" . "https://github.com/brown/lisp-gflags")
 ("lisp-interface-library"
  . "lisp-interface-library is a collection of pure and stateful data structures in interface-passing style from Fare Rideau.")
 ("lisp-magick"
  . "lisp-magick is a binding for the ImageMagick graphics library.")
 ("lisp-on-lines"
  . "Lisp-on-lines is a web framework built on top of ContextL and UCW and provides a unique declarative application development model.")
 ("lisp-unit"
  . " lisp-unit is a simple Common Lisp Test Framework. It is an extension of the library written by Chris Riesbeck . There is a long history of testing packages in Lisp, usually called \"regression\" testers. More recent packages in Lisp and other languages have been inspired by JUnit for Java. For more information on both unit testing and JUnit, visit www.junit.org. ")
 ("lisp-zmq")
 ("lispbuilder"
  . "LispBuilder is a Common Lisp Application Builder providing several useful cross-platform packages for Common Lisp. ")
 ("lla"
  . "LLA (Lisp Linear Algebra) aims to provide a convenient and fast library for matrix operations in Common Lisp, by binding to LAPACK (and later on, possibly other libraries).")
 ("lml"
  . "LML (Lisp Markup Language) is an XHTML generator. Is is written by Kevin Rosenberg who uses it for generating all of his web pages. This includes his Debian package maintenance page which is automatically generated from a database of package information. ")
 ("lml2"
  . "LML2 is an XHTML generator based on LML and the htmlgen macro from AllegroServe.")
 ("local-package-aliases")
 ("local-time"
  . "local-time is a library for manipulating date and time information in a semi-standard manner. It is based almost entirely off of Erik Naggum's paper, The Long, Painful History of Time. It includes such features as:")
 ("log4cl"
  . "Log4CL is high performance extensible logging library for Common Lisp")
 ("log5"
  . "Log5 is a logging library organized around five things: categories, outputs, senders, messages and contexts.")
 ("lparallel"
  . "lparallel is a new concurrency library. It allows tasks (defined as functions) to be set up to run in parallel. Task control is special to the library. Control and data flow among tasks is supported with structures including queues, \"promises\", and \"ptrees\". Parallelized cognates of Common Lisp functions are provided. Homepage: http://lparallel.org/")
 ("lredis")
 ("ltk"
  . "LTK is a set of CL bindings for the Tk GUI library, which provides a complete CLOS binding to the Tk widget set. It is implemented by means of talking to a Tcl interpreter. This makes the toolkit portable and capable of working over a remote socket.")
 ("lw-compat"
  . "LW Compat contains a few utility functions from the LispWorks library that are used in Pascal Costanza's software such as ContextL.")
 ("m2cl" . "An implementation of the mongrel2 API")
 ("macro-level"
  . "MACRO-LEVEL is an embarassingly trivial convenience macro that saves on indentation while being more concise and direct.")
 ("macroexpand-dammit"
  . "macroexpand-dammit is a code walker by John Fremlin.")
 ("madeira-port")
 ("magicffi"
  . "Magicffi is a CFFI interface to libmagic(3), the file type determination library using magic numbers. It can be used to guess file formats.")
 ("make-hash")
 ("manardb" . "manardb: Fast, persistent, mmap'd Lisp object store")
 ("manifest"
  . "Manifest is a documentation tool for semi-automatically documenting Common Lisp packages as a set of web pages, using the toot web server. It was written by Peter Seibel and can be installed via Quicklisp.")
 ("map-bind"
  . "MAP-BIND is a macro that allows visual grouping of variables with their corresponding values (not necessarily 1:1) in calls to mapping operators when using an inline LAMBDA. It does so in a way that automatically supports virtually every existing and future mapping operator, all lambda keywords and FUNCALL/APPLY/MULTIPLE-VALUE-CALL variations.")
 ("marching-cubes") ("marshal")
 ("mcclim"
  . "McCLIM is Mike McDonald's Free and portable implementation of CLIM, the Common Lisp ueber-GUI toolkit.")
 ("md5"
  . "md5 is a cryptographic Message-Digest algorithm from RSA Data Security, Inc. It is defined in RFC 1321: The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm, by Ron L. Rivest. An implementation is included in the Ironclad package.")
 ("mel-base"
  . "mel-base is a library for handling email with support for Maildir, POP3, IMAP and SMTP folders.")
 ("memoize"
  . "Memoize is a small library for performing memoization. It was written by Tim Bradshaw.")
 ("message-oo")
 ("meta"
  . "A recursive-descent parser DSL that is a simpler alternative to parser generators. Described by Henry Baker: Pragmatic Parsing in Common Lisp; or, putting defmacro on steroids (ACM Lisp Pointers, vol. IV, no. 2, April--June 1991, pp. 3--15, DOI 10.1145/121983.121984). A few dozen lines of code in Common Lisp. (mirror of the paper.)")
 ("meta-sexp"
  . "meta-sexp is a META parser generator using LL(1) grammars with s-expressions. meta-sexp uses in-memory string vectors, instead of commonly used streams, for efficiently stepping backward and forward through the input. It is tested on SBCL but should be portable to other implementations as well.")
 ("metabang-bind"
  . "This page is here to help ASDF-Install and me agree on names. See bind for all the exciting details. The project page is on common-lisp.net.")
 ("metacopy"
  . "This system is no longer being maintained (at least not by Gary King).")
 ("metafs")
 ("metatilities"
  . "Everyone needs their own set of utilities... These are Gary King's. ")
 ("metatilities-base"
  . "Everyone needs their own set of utilities... Many utilities come in layers. This is the base of Gary King's utilities. The rest of the utilities are in Metatilities. ")
 ("method-combination-utilities")
 ("method-versions"
  . "A Common Lisp library for dispatching generic methods based on the value of a global parameter rather than on one of the required parameters.")
 ("mgl"
  . "MGL is an AI/machine learning library focusing on Boltzmann Machines (BM), including Deep and Restricted Boltzmann Machines (DBM, RBM) and stacks of RBMs called Deep Belief Networks (DBN). It can turn a DBN or a DBM into a backprop network for fine-tuning. DBNs are state-of-the-art as of 2007. Backprop with gradient descent and conjugate gradient optimization is also available without ever having to touch DBNs.")
 ("micmac"
  . "Common Lisp Mathematics library by Gabor Melis that implements UCT and Metropolis-Hastings MCMC.")
 ("midi"
  . "A library for parsing MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital Interface) file format files and representing MIDI events, previously distributed as part of the Gsharp project.")
 ("mime4cl"
  . "MIME4CL allows you to craft MIME compliant messages or to parse and handle them programmatically.")
 ("minheap"
  . "minheap provides several heap data structures with meldable min-heap and priority queue functionality. Due to this lib's history, all implemented heaps are currently limited to fixnum keys in min-first order though an adaption for other needs should be quite simple.")
 ("mini-cas")
 ("misc-extensions"
  . "A convenience library containing a motley collection of macros and other extensions.")
 ("mixalot"
  . "Mixalot is a grab bag of systems related to audio in Common Lisp under an MIT-style license. ")
 ("modf") ("modf-fset") ("monkeylib-binary-data") ("monkeylib-html")
 ("monkeylib-json"
  . "monkeylib-json is a library for reading and writing JSON.")
 ("monkeylib-macro-utilities") ("monkeylib-markup") ("monkeylib-markup-html")
 ("monkeylib-parser"
  . "monkeylib-parser is a parser generator loosely based on Henry Baker's META paper.")
 ("monkeylib-pathnames")
 ("monkeylib-prose-diff"
  . "monkeylib-prose-diff is a diff program optimized for comparing text files containing prose.")
 ("monkeylib-test-framework") ("monkeylib-text-languages")
 ("monkeylib-text-output")
 ("monkeylib-utilities" . "monkeylib-utilities are Peter Seibel's utilities.")
 ("montezuma"
  . "Montezuma is a text search engine for Common Lisp. It is a Common Lisp port of Ferret. Ferret is a Ruby port of Lucene. Lucene is sort of Doug Cutting's Java version of Text Database (TDB), which he and Jan Pedersen developed at Xerox PARC, and which, to complete the circle, was written in Common Lisp (see \"An Object-Oriented Architecture for Text Retrieval\").")
 ("mop-utils"
  . "MOP-utils is a small library of utilities for the MetaObject Protocol. It is used by Submarine, with which it shares a webpage: http://common-lisp.net/project/submarine/.")
 ("moptilities"
  . "Everyone needs their own MOP compatibility layer... These are Gary King's. They are required for CL-Containers. ")
 ("more-conditions")
 ("mt19937"
  . "MT19937 is a portable Mersenne Twister random number generator. It is mainly a modification of CMUCL's random number generator with all the CMUCL-specific parts taken out.")
 ("mtlisp")
 ("multiple-value-variants"
  . "multiple-value-variants gives access to multiple-value variants of operators through one macro: MULTIPLE-VALUE. There are built-in variants for some standard operators; it's easy to create your own variants for other operators. The multiple-value mapping operators are especially useful.")
 ("multival-plist")
 ("mw-equiv"
  . "MW-EQUIV provides one of many possible equivalence relations between Common Lisp objects, similar to the standard EQUAL function family, but extensible.")
 ("myweb"
  . "myweb - simple web server written in common lisp for educational reasons (tested on sbcl but should work with other implementations)")
 ("named-readtables"
  . "Named-Readtables is a language extension library that provides a namespace for readtables akin to the already-existing namespace of packages. More details can be found on the cl-net page named-readtables")
 ("napa-fft3") ("nekthuth" . "Nekthuth: Connection with a Lisp")
 ("net-telent-date"
  . "net-telent-date consists of the time parsing routines from CMUCL and a universal-time to RFC 822 date converter.")
 ("net4cl")
 ("nibbles"
  . "Nibbles is a library for accessing octet-addressed blocks of data.")
 ("ningle"
  . "ningle is a lightweight web application framework for Common Lisp. ningle is a fork project of Caveman that doesn't require you to generate a project skeleton.")
 ("npg")
 ("nst"
  . "NST is a test framework for Common Lisp offering separate and reusable fixture definitions, test groups, extensible test criteria, ASDF integration, and optional JUnit XML output.")
 ("nuclblog" . "Blog software for use with Hunchentoot.")
 ("oct" . "Lisp implementation of quad-double floats")
 ("odd-streams"
  . "ODD-STREAMS implements binary streams with \"odd\" byte sizes.")
 ("ods4cl"
  . "ODS4CL can produce spreadsheets in OpenDocument (OpenOffice) file format. It can produce multiple page sheets but cells can't contain formulas. This package depends on SCLF.")
 ("okra" . "Okra provides CFFI bindings to the Ogre 3D graphics engine.")
 ("open-vrp") ("opticl") ("optima" . "Optima is a pattern matching library")
 ("org-davep-dict"
  . "org-davep-dict is a Common Lisp networking protocol library for talking to a dict server. See www.dict.org. You can download the latest version from http://www.davep.org/lisp/#org-davep-dict. As a bit of test code you can try org-davep-dictrepl. If you're into McCLIM then org-davep-cldict might interest you too.")
 ("org-davep-dictrepl"
  . "org-davep-dictrepl is a Common Lisp application that provides a simple repl for talking to a dict server. You can download the latest version from http://www.davep.org/lisp/#org-davep-dictrepl.")
 ("osc"
  . "An implementation of the OpenSoundControl protocol. OSC is a networking protocol used \"for communication among computers, sound synthesizers, and other multimedia devices\"")
 ("osicat"
  . "Operating system interface library mainly for Unix. It is not a POSIX-style API, but rather a simple lispy accompaniment to the standard ANSI facilities, built on top of CFFI.")
 ("pack")
 ("package-renaming"
  . "package-renaming is a library for locally renaming lisp packages.")
 ("paiprolog")
 ("pal"
  . "PAL is an Common Lisp multimedia library that provides simple and easy to use Lisp interface for all your basic graphics and audio needs. Drawing thousands of sprites on screen, playing sound and music, handling events and drawing text with different fonts.")
 ("paren-files") ("paren-util")
 ("parenscript"
  . "Parenscript is a translator from an extended subset of Common Lisp (s-exp syntax) to JavaScript. Parenscript code can run almost identically on both the browser (as JavaScript) and server (as Common Lisp).")
 ("parenscript-classic")
 ("parse-declarations"
  . "Parse-Declarations is a metaprogramming library to parse, filter, and build Common Lisp declarations (things like (inline foo)).")
 ("parse-float") ("parse-js" . "A simple, zlib-licensed JavaScript parser.")
 ("parse-number"
  . "parse-number accepts an arbitrary string and attempts to parse the string into one of the standard Common Lisp number types, if possible, or else parse-number signals an error of type invalid-number.")
 ("parse-number-range"
  . "parse-number-range parses LOOP's convenient \"for-as-arithmetic\" syntax into 5 simple values: from, to, limit-kind (:inclusive, :exclusive or nil if unbounded), by (step) and direction (+ or -)). Further related utilities are provided. Intended for easy implementation of analogous functionality in other constructs.")
 ("parseltongue")
 ("patron"
  . "Patron is a multi-consumer/multi-producer thread pooling library written in Common Lisp with flexibility and performance in mind. You simply create a `PATRON' with a job queue of fixed size, specify a fixed number of `WORKER' threads and start submitting your `JOB's into the work queue.")
 ("pcall"
  . "PCall is a concurrency library that implements simple 'result-oriented' parallelism on top of Bordeaux-Threads. See also this article for background information.")
 ("percent-encoding") ("perfpiece" . "From the README:")
 ("periodic-table"
  . "An essential part of any general chemistry program is the periodic table of the elements. Nobody wants to copy the whole thing by hand, and figuring out how to represent it can be a minor headache. Therefore, you should download the periodic-table library. It is fully asdf-installable and has been tested without any problems on SBCL and LispWorks.")
 ("periods") ("persistent-tables")
 ("persistent-variables"
  . "Persistent-variables is a convenience library that makes it easy to serialize and deserialize variables. It would be ideal in scripts, and as a light weight alternative to configuration files.")
 ("pettomato-deque") ("pettomato-indexed-priority-queue")
 ("pg"
  . "Pg is a socket-level interface to the PostgreSQL object-relational Database. Pg implements the client part of the frontend/backend protocol, so does not require interfacing with the libpq library. SQL types are converted to the equivalent Common Lisp types where possible. Supports large objects (BLOBs).")
 ("phemlock") ("pileup")
 ("pipes"
  . "pipes implements the input stream (lazy list) data structure. It is based on ideas from Peter Norvig's Paradigms of Artificial Intelligence Programming.")
 ("pithy-xml")
 ("place-modifiers"
  . "place-modifiers essentially gives access to hundreds of modify-macros through one single macro: MODIFY.")
 ("place-utils")
 ("plain-odbc"
  . "Plain-odbc is a simple, yet powerful Common Lisp ODBC interface. It is possible to use parameterized queries with in and out parameters and call stored procedures. In principle it should be possible to use any database which offers an ODBC interface (even MS Excel and MS Access).")
 ("planks") ("plexippus-xpath" . " Info Project name: Plexippus XPath")
 ("plokami" . "PLOKAMI is a libpcap/winpcap interface.")
 ("png-read" . "png-read is a PNG image file decoder in pure Common Lisp.")
 ("portableaserve"
  . "Portable AllegroServe is a fork of the AllegroServe web server, adapted to work with other CL implementations, not only with Allegro CL. So far the following implementations are supported, to varying degrees: CMU Common Lisp Steel Bank Common Lisp GNU clisp (only single-threaded operation) OpenMCL Xanalys Lispworks MCL Scieneer Common Lisp (slightly broken as of 2004-02-29) Corman Common Lisp (with non-standard install method, might be broken as of 2004-02-29) Allegro Common Lisp portableaserve.sf.net")
 ("positional-lambda"
  . "positional-lambda is a concise, intuitive and flexible syntax (macro) for trivial lambdas that eschews explicit (and often contextually-redundant) naming of parameter variables in favor of positional references, with support for a used or ignored &rest parameter and automatic declaration of ignored parameters when logical \"gaps\" are left in the positional references. Further convenience features are provided.")
 ("postmodern" . "Postmodern is an interface to PostgreSQL SQL databases. ")
 ("postoffice")
 ("prepl" . "prepl is a REPL implementation, also known as a Lisp listener.")
 ("printf") ("priority-queue") ("protobuf")
 ("psgraph"
  . "psgraph is a small package for generating PostScript pictures of directed acyclic graphs. It allows arbitrary information to be displayed by a node, and it supports programmable generation of trees, similar to CLIM's tree drawing.")
 ("ptester"
  . "ptester is a portable version of Franz's tester library. It is a test framework library.")
 ("pubmed")
 ("puri"
  . " puri, Portable Universal Resource Identifier, is a library for parsing and representing URIs. More information about Puri is available on its home page. ")
 ("py-configparser"
  . "py-configparser allows reading and writing of configuration files stored in the Windows INI file format. It is a port of the Python ConfigParser library.")
 ("py-configvalidator") ("pythonic-string-reader") ("pzmq")
 ("qbook"
  . "qbook generates HTML (or LaTeX) formatted code listings of Common Lisp source files. Comments in the source code are rendered as HTML paragraphs, text is rendered in < pre > blocks. Headings are created by preceding the text of the comment with one or more #\\* chars.")
 ("query-fs"
  . "Query-FS is a FUSE-based filesystem that presents database queries as filesystem trees. It first loads plugins (lisp source files) to prepare query parsers, and then loads the queries themselves and creates a virtual filesystem with results.")
 ("queues") ("quicklisp-slime-helper") ("quickproject") ("quid-pro-quo")
 ("quux-time") ("random-access-lists")
 ("rcl"
  . "RCL is an FFI to communicate with the R statistics environment. RCLmath links with libRmath and makes some functions accessible in a much simpler way.")
 ("read-csv"
  . "Read-csv is a library for reading csv (comma-separated-values) files. It is short (68 loc), well documented (website, manual) and tested (519 tests)")
 ("reader-interception"
  . "reader-interception is a library for replacing the lisp reader with your own, so you can define your own syntax or compile other language through Lisp.")
 ("recur"
  . "RECUR is a convenience library that contains the RECUR macro for named-LET style functionality, written by Robert Smith.")
 ("recursive-regex"
  . "recursive-regex is a library to extend CL-PPCRE to make regular expression named capture groups dispatch to custom matcher functions and named-expression patterns.")
 ("red-black")
 ("regex"
  . "Regex is a full-featured regular expression compiler and matching engine written by Michael Parker. If you're one of those who believe that Lisp is slow, note that this regex engine is roughly 5x-20x times faster than the GNU regex matcher (which is obviously written in C).")
 ("relational-objects-for-lisp") ("repl-utilities")
 ("restas" . "RESTAS is a web framework, used to develop the site lisper.ru")
 ("restas-directory-publisher") ("restas.file-publisher")
 ("retrospectiff"
  . "retrospectiff is a library for reading and writing TIFF image files in Common Lisp.")
 ("reversi")
 ("rfc2109"
  . "rfc2109 (aka cookies1) is a package for dealing with cookies in an RFC-compliant way. This is often needed with Web programming.")
 ("rfc2388"
  . " rfc2388 processes HTTP POST form data using enctype \"multipart/form-data\", as described in RFC 2388. Its home-page is on http://common-lisp.net/project/rfc2388/ There's another branch at the UCW repos, which is not backward compatible but contains extra patches. The main difference is that it accepts that http is a binary protocol and expects a binary network stream. ")
 ("rfc2388-binary")
 ("rfc3339-timestamp"
  . "A library to decode and encode timestamps according to RFC3339. This library also supports some more sloppily encoded dates (to allow its use in rpc4cl) but can be made to enforce compliant timestamps should this behavior be desired.")
 ("rlc"
  . "RLC is an electronics library which graphs solutions to RLC (resistance, inductance, and capacitance) circuits.")
 ("romreader")
 ("rpc4cl" . "Rpc4cl - Yet another XML-RPC implementation for CL.")
 ("rpm" . "rpm is a library for manipulating rpm packages.")
 ("rt"
  . "Short for \"regression testing\", an older (last update 1995) Test Framework from the CMU AI Repository.")
 ("rucksack"
  . "Rucksack is a persistence library for Common Lisp. Here is a CVS repository.")
 ("rutils"
  . "REASONABLE-UTILITIES (RUTILS) is yet another general purpose utilities package for COMMON-LISP.")
 ("s-base64" . "Base64 encoding/decoding library by Sven Van Caekenberghe.")
 ("s-dot"
  . "S-Dot by Martin Loetzsch is a Common Lisp interface to the 'dot' tool of the GraphViz graphics library. With s-dot, you can specify a graph in an s-expressions syntax and a there are functions to translate these s-expressions into the native syntax of the dot tool. ")
 ("s-http-client" . "s-http-client is an HTTP client library.")
 ("s-http-server"
  . "s-http-server is a trivial HTTP server by Sven Van Caekenberghe.")
 ("s-protobuf"
  . "S-PROTOBUF is a library to encode data in the Google Protocol Buffers wire format.")
 ("s-sysdeps" . "A system dependency library by Sven Van Caekenberghe.")
 ("s-utils" . "Utilities by Sven Van Caekenberghe.")
 ("s-xml"
  . "S-XML is a simple basic XML parser with both a function and (S)SAX like event interface as well as a DOM interface with LXML, SXML and an XML-ELEMENT struct DOM representation.")
 ("s-xml-rpc"
  . "s-xml-rpc ( http://common-lisp.net/project/s-xml-rpc ) is an implementation of the XML-RPC protocol in Common Lisp for both client and server.")
 ("salza2"
  . "Salza2 is a native Common Lisp compression library for creating data in the DEFLATE, ZLIB, or GZIP compression formats. It does not yet support decompression. Take a look at chipz for a native Common Lisp library providing DEFLATE/ZLIB decompression.")
 ("sapaclisp"
  . "sapaclisp is a collection of Common Lisp functions for spectral analysis. It can be used to perform the calculations presented in the book \"Spectral Analysis for Physical Applications: Multitaper and Conventional Univariate Techniques\", by Donald B. Percival and Andrew T. Walden, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England, 1993")
 ("sb-cga") ("sb-fastcgi") ("sb-vector-io")
 ("sclf" . "SCLF is Walter C. Pelissero's Common Lisp utilities.")
 ("screamer"
  . "Screamer is a language extension that adds support for nondeterministic programming, including backtracking and undoable side-effects, and includes a constraint programming language.")
 ("scribble"
  . "Scribble extends the Common Lisp reader with the text markup syntax of Scribe/Skribe and Scribble document preparation systems.")
 ("scriptl")
 ("secure-random"
  . "secure-random provides a cryptographically secure pseudo-random number generator for Common Lisp.")
 ("sequence-iterators")
 ("series"
  . "Series is a library for operating on series, a data structure similar to a sequence. Unlike sequences, in most cases operations on series may be composed functionally but execute iteratively without generating intermediate values. So series offer both the expressiveness of functional programming and the efficiency of iterative programming.")
 ("sexml") ("shadchen")
 ("sheeple"
  . "Sheeple is a delegative prototype-based object system inspired by CLOS.")
 ("shelly")
 ("shuffletron"
  . "Shuffletron is an MP3 audio player application running on Linux and Mac OS X systems (and possibly elsewhere). It uses Mixalot for file decoding and output.")
 ("simple-date-time")
 ("simple-finalizer"
  . "Simple finalizer is a package used (at least) in Lispbuilder-openrm.")
 ("simple-rgb"
  . "simple-rgb is a library for manipulating RGB and HSV color values. It is intended for working with CSS color schemes - it's not really optimized for intense image processing.")
 ("simpsamp"
  . "SimpSamp is a statistics library for simple random sampling without replacement. In English, that means it will return a requested number of random elements from a set, without duplicating any of the elements.")
 ("single-threaded-ccl") ("sip-hash")
 ("skippy"
  . "Skippy reads and writes GIF image files. It is pure Common Lisp. It supports normal GIFs and animated GIFs.")
 ("slime"
  . "SLIME is the Superior Lisp Interaction Mode for Emacs. This is an ILISP-like development environment intended for maximum integration with CMUCL (also works with SBCL, OpenMCL and work is ongoing on Lispworks and current CVS version of CLISP and CLISP 2.32 on Linux; there is also support packaged separately for Scheme48, called SLIME48).")
 ("smtp4cl"
  . "SMTP4CL is a SMTP client library to send messages to an MTA (Mail Transport Agent).")
 ("smug")
 ("snmp" . "See cl-net-snmp Page, this page is just for ASDF-INSTALL.")
 ("soundex"
  . "The Soundex algorithm indexes words by their sound when pronounced in English, for example to account for differences in spelling.")
 ("spartns"
  . "Spartns is a SPARse TeNSor representation library. If you don't know what a tensor is, think of it as a matrix with any number of dimensions, not just two. It is useful for linear algebra.")
 ("spatial-trees"
  . "spatial-trees is a set of dynamic index data structures for spatially-extended data. The flavors provided are, as of the 0.1 release (on 2004-12-03): R-trees, as in R-TREES: A DYNAMIC INDEX STRUCTURE FOR SPATIAL SEARCHING, Antonin Guttman, Proc. ACM SIGMOD Int. Conf. on Management of Data, 1984. Greene-trees, as in An Implementation and Performance Analysis of Spatial Data Access Methods, Diane Greene, Proc. 5th IEEE Int. Conf. on Data Engineering, 1989. R*-trees, as in The R*-tree: An Efficient and Robust Access Method for Points and Rectangles, Beckmann, Kriegel, Schneider and Seeger, Proc. ACM Int. Conf. on Management of Data, 1990 X-trees, as in The X-tree: An Index Structure for High-Dimensional Data, Berchtold, Keim and Kriegel, Proc. 22th Int. Conf. on Very Large Databases, 1996 ")
 ("spinneret")
 ("split-sequence"
  . "SPLIT-SEQUENCE (formerly known as PARTITION) is a member of the Common Lisp Utilities family of programs, designed by community consensus.")
 ("sqnc") ("st-json" . "ST-JSON is a JSON encoding and decoding library.")
 ("static-vectors")
 ("stefil"
  . "Stefil is a test framework, and its philosophy is to stay as transparent as possible, disrupting the normal Lisp application development process as little as possible.")
 ("stem") ("stp-query") ("string-case") ("stringprep")
 ("stumpwm"
  . " Stumpwm is a tiling, keyboard driven X11 window manager application written entirely in Common Lisp. ")
 ("submarine" . "Submarine is a CLOS ORM for PostgreSQL based on Postmodern.")
 ("sw-http" . "sw-http is an HTTP Server tailored for AJAX/Comet.")
 ("sw-stm"
  . "sw-stm is a concurrency library that provides Software Transactional Memory (STM) for Common Lisp.")
 ("swank-client") ("swank-crew")
 ("symbol-munger"
  . "Symbol-Munger is a small library that provides functionality to ease conversion between the same symbol in different environments. ")
 ("symbol-namespaces"
  . "symbol-namespaces defines a new kind of package that's named by a symbol rather than a string and that maps from existing symbols to their respective \"implicitly managed\" counterparts. The motivating use-case is to conceptually allow multiple definitions of the same kind on a single symbol, without conflicts.")
 ("synonyms")
 ("talcl"
  . "TALCL is a templating library that implements XML templates and HTML templates. ")
 ("tap-unit-test")
 ("tbnl" . "TBNL is deprecated and has been replaced by Hunchentoot.")
 ("teepeedee2" . "teepeedee2 is a fast HTTP server and web framework.")
 ("telnetlib"
  . "telnetlib is a networking library for doing Telnet. It is ported from Python's telnetlib library and quite useful for writing automatical scripts.")
 ("temporary-file")
 ("testbild"
  . "testbild implements TAP (Test Anything Protocol) (versions 12, 13) and xUnit output so you can connect your Lisp tests to other programs.")
 ("text-query"
  . "The text-query package is a generalized form of Common Lisp's builtin Y-OR-N-P and YES-OR-NO-P, adding more generality and the ability to time out with a default value. It is asdf-installable and should work on any modern Lisp. It was written by Mark Kantrowitz and can be freely used, modified, and distributed.")
 ("thnappy"
  . "thnappy is a set of CFFI bindings to Google's snappy compression library.")
 ("thread-pool"
  . "thread-pool is library that allows asynchronous function execution from a static thread pool.")
 ("thread.comm.rendezvous") ("time-interval")
 ("tinaa"
  . "Gary King is barely maintaining this package. Life got too busy and things moved around a lot and, the next thing you know, several years have gone by!")
 ("toadstool"
  . "Toadstool is a library for pattern matching. The author is Stanis&#322;aw Halik, and it is released to the public domain.")
 ("toot"
  . "Toot is a stripped down and, hopefully, simplified version of Edi Weitz 's Hunchentoot HTTP server. It does not aim to be backwards compatible with anything and large swaths of Hunchentoot functionality have been cut out. Some of them may be put back someday. Use at your own risk. If it breaks you get to keep both pieces, etc. etc.")
 ("torta"
  . "Torta shows you where your disk space is going. It uses the graphical format used by the the awesome program filelight to represent disk usage. Unlike filelight, Torta can be run on a computer with no graphical environment: it generates a flash file that can be consulted, locally or remotelly, using any browser that has the flash plugin installed.")
 ("trees"
  . "TREES provides several binary tree data structures exposed through a uniform CLOS interface. The flavors provided are:")
 ("trivial-backtrace"
  . "Trivial backtrace is a simple platform independent interface for generating a backtrace. Much of the code is borrowed from the innards of Hunchentoot.")
 ("trivial-bit-streams"
  . "Trivial-bit-streams implements flexible buffered bit streams.")
 ("trivial-dump-core"
  . "trivial-dump-core is a small portability wrapper for dumping core and creating executables for CCL, CLISP, and SBCL.")
 ("trivial-features"
  . "trivial-features ensures consistent *FEATURES* across multiple Common Lisp implementations.")
 ("trivial-garbage"
  . "trivial-garbage provides a portable API to finalizers, weak hash-tables and weak pointers on all major CL implementations.")
 ("trivial-gray-streams"
  . "trivial-gray-streams provides an extremely thin compatibility layer for Gray streams.")
 ("trivial-http" . "trivial-http is a simple HTTP client library.")
 ("trivial-irc"
  . "trivial-irc is a small IRC library that provides only very basic facilities for communicating with IRC servers, and has no facilities for extensions like DCC, CTCP etc. Look at cl-irc for that.")
 ("trivial-lazy")
 ("trivial-ldap"
  . "TRIVIAL-LDAP is a one-file, pure-Lisp client library for parts of RFC 4510 - Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (v3), LDAP. ")
 ("trivial-octet-streams")
 ("trivial-shell"
  . "Trivial shell is a simple platform independent interface to the underlying Operating System. It forks and builds on the code in Kevin Rosenberg's handy KMRCL tools. More details can be found on its home page at Common-Lisp.net. Presently, the package is quite rudimentary (even for something trivial !) but we all live in hope.")
 ("trivial-timeout" . "trivial-timeout")
 ("trivial-timers"
  . "Trivial-timers is a minimally portable implementation of the SBCL timer extension using Bordeaux-Threads. It is used by Clon. ")
 ("trivial-types")
 ("trivial-utf-8"
  . "Trivial UTF-8 provides more efficient ways of reading and writing UTF-8 for implementations that already support Unicode.")
 ("twfy") ("ucw" . "UnCommon Web is a web framework.")
 ("uffi" . "CFFI is recommended as the replacement for UFFI.")
 ("umlisp"
  . "umlisp is an CLOS object-oriented interface to the Unified Medical Language System. It uses a SQL database to index and access the 15 gigabytes of text UMLS data. UMLisp is written by Kevin Rosenberg. There is an online demonstration system for browsing the UMLS at the UMLisp web site. or at archive.org since umlisp.b9.com seems not to exist anymore. ")
 ("umlisp-orf")
 ("unicly"
  . "Unicly is a Common Lisp library for generation of UUIDs (Universally Unique Identifiers) as described by RFC 4122.")
 ("unit-formula"
  . "unit-formula is a library for units conversions and defining formulas with automated unit consistency checking and conversions.")
 ("unit-test"
  . "unit-test is a Test Framework by Alan Picard. ASDF-install package (obsolete) http://bknr.net/packages/unit-test.tar.gz")
 ("unix-options"
  . "unix-options is a library for processing Unix-style command-line arguments. Can act as a simple Getopt for Lisp or can automatically bind values passed in from the CLI. Ordinary usage is as simple as specifying which variables you need to be set from the command-line.")
 ("until-it-dies")
 ("uri-template"
  . "uri-template is an implementation of the URI Template proposed standard draft version 01 as a reader macro, used for both template interpolation and URI destructuring.")
 ("url-rewrite"
  . "URL-REWRITE programmatically rewrites (X)HTML documents such that certain attributes values are replaced by others. It was originally written to rewrite URLs for cookie-less session handling.")
 ("userial"
  . "A Common Lisp library for serializing to binary buffers. This library is the serialization layer for the forthcoming unet library.")
 ("usocket"
  . "USOCKET is a networking portability layer for BSD-style sockets.")
 ("usocket-udp" . "UDP networking patch for USOCKET.")
 ("utils-kt" . "utils-kt is an ASDF system provided by Cells.")
 ("uuid"
  . "A library for generation of universally unique identifiers (UUIDs) as described by RFC 4122. UUID provides methods for the generation of uuids version 1 (time based), 3 (name based with MD5 hashing), 5 (name based with SHA1 hashing) and 4 (random uuids).")
 ("vas-string-metrics"
  . "vas-string-metrics provides the Jaro, Jaro-Winkler, Levenshtein, and normalized Levenshtein string distance/similarity metrics algorithms for text analysis.")
 ("vecto"
  . "Vecto is a graphics library that uses cl-vectors and ZPNG to draw vector graphics to PNG files.")
 ("vector")
 ("verrazano" . "Verrazano is no longer actively developed; see SWIG.")
 ("weblocks")
 ("wu-decimal"
  . "Wu-Decimal is a decimal number package developed by Wukix. It is available under a BSD license.")
 ("wuwei"
  . "WuWei is a toolkit for building Ajax web pages and web sites in Common Lisp. It's designed to be light-weight, a toolkit rather than a platform. ")
 ("x.fdatatypes"
  . "XFDATATYPES implements 3 functional data structures: hash-table (more or less translation of Clojure implementation of Bagwell tries) array (also a translation from Clojure + more functions on it) set ")
 ("x.let-star"
  . "X LET-STAR is a convenience library not unlike metabang-bind, but smaller, extendible, nicely written and bug-free (hopefully :)")
 ("xarray"
  . "xarray is a generalized interface for array-like objects with views.")
 ("xcvb"
  . "XCVB, an eXtensible Component Verifier and Builder for Lisp is an attempt to replace asdf.")
 ("xhtmlgen"
  . "xhtmlgen is an XHTML generator. It is derived from Franz Inc.'s net.htmlgen")
 ("xlunit"
  . "XLUnit is a Test Framework based on XPTest and JUnit. XLUnit strives to have a good balance between low programmer overhead and good support for fixture setup and teardown. XLUnit has greatly decreased programmer overhead compared to XPTest while adding more functionality from JUnit.")
 ("xml-emitter"
  . "Often, programs have to generate XML output. This is fairly easy, but not quite trivial. You need to do escaping, and indentation can be a little tricky to keep track of. One approach you could use is to get an XML parser/unparser like XMLS, build your XML data structure in memory, then dump the whole thing. This is fairly easy, but not as easy as it could be, and it requires holding the whole structure in memory.")
 ("xml-mop") ("xml.location")
 ("xmls"
  . "Xmls is a small, simple, non-validating XML parser for Common Lisp. It's designed to be a self-contained, easily embedded parser that recognizes a useful subset of the XML spec. It provides a simple mapping from xml to lisp s-expressions and back.")
 ("xmls-tools"
  . "xmls-tools is a library to supplement use of xmls. It includes support for parsing with side effects, searching and validating XML. It includes an example side effect parser in the form of a XHTML to text converter.")
 ("xptest") ("xuriella" . " Info Project name: Xuriella XSLT")
 ("yaclml"
  . "yaclml (Yet Another Common Lisp Markup Language) is an HTML generator and HTML template library. yaclml is used as the html templating backend for the ucw web framework.")
 ("yason"
  . "YASON is a Common Lisp library for encoding and decoding data in the JSON interchange format. JSON is used in AJAX applications as a lightweight alternative to XML. YASON has the sole purpose of encoding and decoding data and does not impose any object model on the Common Lisp application that uses it. ")
 ("zaws")
 ("zcdb"
  . "ZCDB is a Common Lisp library for reading and writing D. J. Bernstein's fast and simple cdb database file format. It is available under a BSD-style license. For more information, see the ZCDB home page.")
 ("zip"
  . "ZIP is a Common Lisp compression library by David Lichteblau that reads and writes Zip files, using Salza for compression.")
 ("zlib"
  . "ZLIB is a compression format described by RFC1950. It is also the name of the de-facto canonical C-language implementation of the format (http://zlib.net/).")
 ("zpb-exif"
  . "ZPB-EXIF reads Exif data from image files. Currently, only JPEG files are supported. It is available under a BSD license.")
 ("zpb-ttf"
  . "ZPB-TTF is a graphics library for parsing TrueType font files and obtaining font and glyph information. It is available under a BSD license.")
 ("zpng" . "ZPNG creates PNG image files.")
 ("zs3"
  . "ZS3 is a library for interacting with Amazon's Simple Storage Service (S3) and CloudFront content distribution service.")
 ("zsort"))